In this video we're going to work on the single pages as well as the sub nav menu.
All right so what we're going to do is before we add any code we're going to create a couple of new
pages.
So let's say add new one will say about it and as far as content Let's just grab some dummy data
copy that they publish and then let's see we're going to create another page.
We're going to call this one services and this time we're going to choose a parent of about
OK I DOn't KNOW WHY DO I HAVE TO about's see when we get to that.
All right.
So it's at another page and we'll call this one our team and choose a parent for that of about.
And then we'll create one more called F.A..
Q
And same thing about.
OK so now we have these pages.
Now we're going to do is go into our text editor and in that in our theme folder we're going to create
a new file and save it as Page dot THP.
All right.
Now actually before we do that before we do anything there let's go ahead and add to the menu.
So although appearance menus and we want to bring over.
About.
All right.
And I'm not going to get into the dropdown just yet.
Let's just save that and make sure we can see it.
Let's put it right here.
OK.
So we get a blank page.
So let's go to page dot php.
And I'm also going to open up from our age team template the about each team page.
All right.
And let's see
actually you know let's first grab what we have in single dot ph P bring that over to page P P
and this is all going to stay the same you know.
We don't even need the about each DML just yet we don't want trying to see what we want to pick out
out of here we don't want this math.
So we're going to get rid of that.
We don't want the comments template get rid of that.
And let's see what that looks like.
OK.
So there is a single page we our title our content and I think that should be good.
So if we go to sample page same thing that's what we want.
Now for this about page it has children page child pages.
So what we want to do is display the menu over here on the right.
All right so what's actually open up that about aged him Al page
and we're going to go to the title bar and grab this div with the class of sub nav
and then we're going to go back to page ph P and in the titlebar will change this to 6 and then put
another six call Dev
and then just paste that in there.
The sub now.
OK we'll save that reload.
Now we have our static list over here.
So what we want to do is we want these to show the children of this current page.
So instead of having these lies right here we're going to put in some ph p code.
OK first you want a variable called args or set that to an array.
Let's do child of and then said that to get a top parent which is a function that we need to create
and then we want to title underscore why we just want that to just be an empty single quotes.
All right.
And then we need to call a function call W.P. underscore list pages
and we want to pass in those args.
All right so now let's go to functions dot P P and we'll go down here and I'm just going to paste in
the get top parent code.
All right.
So pretty simple We're just setting up the global post variable.
We're checking to see if it's if it is a parent if it is we're going to return the ancestors.
So let's save that go back and reload.
And now you can see we have all the child pages and we can navigate.
All right.
Now I want to be able to know which one we're on by looking at this menu so we can just add a simple
class or simple style in our style Dotsie SS and say current
page item and let's set font weight to hold.
Right now you can see what page ran through the menu.
Now one other thing I would like to do is when we're looking at the blog when we're on a page like this
I want to be able to see the categories up here on the right.
So what we can do is make that a widget position and then we can set the categories widget to that position
.
OK so let's go to functions ph P and we're going to grab this register sidebar right and then let's
just change this to solve now.
That can also be solved now.
And then we're going to have this just be a div with the class sub now.
And I don't want the title to show so we're going to make this a div with the class of hide and then
change that to slash div right and then let's go to our back and then go to widgets and go to categories
.
And we're just going to bring that over to sub Nav. save.
Now if we go and reload k we not going to see it yet.
We need to add it to index dot ph p.
So let's go right here and change this to 6 and then create another six call div
.
And we're just going to paste in this dynamic sidebar function reload and there it is.
Now the reason it's bunched up like this is because there's not enough room over here.
So let's actually change this one to a four column and this one to an 8 column.
There we go.
So now we can actually navigate navigate categories.
Now when we actually visit a category page this is actually an archive.
So we have to add that same thing to the archive page.
So let's grab this and go to archive ph P and change this one to four and then we're going to add that
a column one here.
OK.
So now if we reload this page now we can just navigate through and we can set the active page to be
bold just like we did with the pages by just adding an extra class here of Currington underscore cat
.
I think that's when we just check that.
Let's see our current cat it's a dash not an underscore.
There we go.
So now whatever category we're on is going to be bold.
All right so the very last thing I want to do in this video is get the drop down because right now we
can go to menus and let's add these three except we want to put them underneath about like that.
All right.
And we'll save it in the front end reload.
And now you can see we have the arrow but nothing's happening when I click it.
The reason for that is we didn't include the bootstrap javascript and also the J queery we need to include
.
So let's go to Forder dark ph p good to go down to right above the the ending body tag.
And we're going to say php blog info.
And here we want to template URL.
And then we'll say slash J.S. slash Jay queery and we see that the exact name
just copy that
.
See we need to put this in the script.
Ok so now do the same thing with the bootstrap file.
Javascript file
.
OK so let's save that and reload and now we get our dropdown.
Awesome.
So we're pretty much there the last couple of things I want to do is I wanted to have that bottom widget
so that we can have those those icons with the information pop up as well as I want to deal with post
format types of formats.
For instance if we want in a side type of post as well as a gallery.
OK so we'll get into that next.